You're going to talk a little bit about how you can do a more in-depth drill down on the host performance
of other hosts in your area.
It's important because you need to know roughly what the bar is to get over to be successful in your
area.
It's not nearly as competitive as you think.
In the sense that you can get killed in this category of you know you're not the best host or you're
clearly worse than the other host and you'll still get bookings.
But if you do better than the other hosts you'll get a considerable amount more bookings.
You'll have more choices who you can have in your space and higher feel right when you go on vacation.
Higher filler out on vacation means you get more money for your vacation.
I'm not going to Dualla a ton on the subject but I think it's a skill set that's worth adding to your
tool box.
Previously we talked about you know so you look at a host or you look at another profile.
What is it that you're looking for.
We covered a little bit of reviews recovered a little bit about host metrics.
Talk a little bit more about those reviews are crucial.
And if you really start reading the reviews and I suggest you read all of them I mean they're all just
a paragraph or two.
See what people are mentioning and you can get an idea of what the host is not doing.
You'll notice in the listings or in their reviews are they mentioning the person by name.
Are they just describing the apartment by itself.
Are they talking about things specifically that the host did.
That's generally an indication of a more attentive host.
A lot of times they might even say what the host did not do or they might have a gripe of what the host
did not respond to this or did not fix this or the host had a certain response to give you a general
kind of picture of what they're doing what they're not doing whether or not they're attentive and whether
or not they are attentive.
You know if someone says we were staying there and one of the you know the toilet got screwed up and
the host responded saying OK we'll fix it in a couple of days.
Clearly that's a host that's not particularly trying and take a mental note of that reviews are pretty
much the best way of telling what a host is like whether or not there's a space to do better than them.
I think that's really kind of the big point here is can you beat them and more often than not you have
hosts that are just sloppy and so you don't have to go out of your way to be the best host and Sarah
cover a little bit of how you can be the best host.
You know if you just keep a reasonable standard of quality you can actually beat out the people who
are vying for the same bookings and the same booking groups.
Another thing to look for in reviews look for the responses that are given by the host and whether or
not there are responses.
And then look at trends since the grammar of how they respond or look at the tone of how they respond.
Good hosts never respond defensively.
They never respond in a confrontation kind of style.
They never blame it on the other guest.
It's perfectly normal for them to respond saying that's unreasonable.
But I will improve in the future.
That's typically what you want to see out of a good host.
But a lot of times you just get people post and say This person is crazy they don't know what they're
talking about.
And the thing is that if there's only one time that's happened then people booking might be forgiving
but if it's happened more than once it's seriously going to hurt the bookings of that place.
And so if you're seeing that there's consistent defensiveness that means it's not going to improve.
Think about if you were booking and you were reading these reviews and you had ten glowing reviews in
the eleventh one that said it was terrible and they had a defensive response from a host that's generally
a negative thing.
That's something that the host is clearly not doing well.
On the flip side like saying sometimes you get very very positive reviews set for a host.
You can tell this host is really good at what they do.
The host came in brought them gifts.
They talked to them for an extended period of time.
The guest is conveying a sense of friendship with the host.
These are all things that would make you believe that the host is kind of optimizing at least the host
experience because that is one of the big aspects of Arabs can be one of the big differentiation aspects
is that you can make yourself a really good host and people can read that in reviews and they're much
likely to go but they're typically when someone's looking at a property they're going to look at the
reviews and the reviews are all positive but they're not glowing and they're all short and they're all
kind of just talking out the space.
That's good.
Definitely.
But it's not the same effect of every single person saying this is a fabulous experience.
Here is why this is how you know everything worked out for me.
Say a couple's booking for their honeymoon or say what's a family going on vacation.
They look for those experiences and those experiences and people saying like what a great host and this
everything was so thoughtful and well appointed.
Those reviews are going to be exactly what these types of people are what's going to push them over
the edge into booking.
They might look at the space it's cheaper and seems any better appointed.
But they're going to look at air space and it's cozy air and it looks like the host really cares a lot
more that's really going to push them to book with you versus someone else another way of analyzing
the other hosts in your areas to look at their photographs.
That's a very good way of telling how well thought out their space was it might not be immediately obvious
to you whether or not it's a good host or a bathouse house because say they have the air B and B photographs
and they look fantastic.
Well there's certain things you're looking for that might indicate that the person is better or worse
something that would indicate that they're better Caribbean B and they take photographs they only are
going to send you maybe 10 12 shots.
Sometimes they only give you four or five.
They're not going to give you 20 shots but if you go to a page and there's Air B and B photographs and
there's like you know 10 of them but then there's 20 amateur shot shots by the host.
That clearly means that the host is going above and beyond and they're not interested in just settling
for what the Air B and B photographer gave them will cover the photography in a quick bit in the next
section.
You should be a little bit acquainted with you know most Arabs at this point you can tell from the photographs
they have professional photography.
It comes from Arabic and be one thing I always see with could host hosts that are kind of maximizing
their bookings.
They'll put photographs that are not air be photographed.
You can tell it's in Arabic and be provided photograph from an Arab and the photographer if it says
at the top verified photo next to the logo of Air B and B if it does not say that that means the host
took the photo.
Sometimes you can notice that the host takes photos that are just as good as being the photos and you
can't tell the difference visually except for the change in the logo.
That's something you makes you go oh wow the House actually took the time to go out and take professional
photographs of the space themselves.
They can go and create professional photographs in every single space of their being the photographer
wouldn't touch.
Another thing you'll notice good hosts when they do the photography they'll take photos of things that
are very specific in a room.
They'll take a photo of say the amenities in their kitchen.
So like they'll take a photo of the toaster in the microwave so that everyone looking at it goes out.
They have a toaster and a microwave can't forget that took a photo of the breakfast cereal that we always
offer when you rent my apartment you will get those.
I never buy anything else I always just buy those because exactly what you would expect because you
saw the photograph.
So that's symbolically something you'll see.
You know one house in San Francisco what she did was she made a welcome packet and that welcome back.
It was like a basket and a card and an had some candies.
She took a photograph of that.
Now that's something that screams this host really goes over the top.
So what are negative things you'll notice in the photographs.
Negative things are things like if they have a spare room or the room that they're renting out the photograph
doesn't capture the entire room in the space somebody is going to put time into the photographs to find
a way of hiding that and someone who's not going to put time into taking the photographs is going to
take a photo like that we can only see the corner of the room or the top of the bed or something like
that.
These are typically things that would indicate that they did this very quickly you know while you think
it's nuanced.
Most guests will at least on a subconscious level notice these things.
So you want to get as many things in the positive column as possible because that's really going to
drive bookings things that you will see people who take photographs and they miss a room in their apartment
and you can tell from the other photographs of the apartment or they take photographs that are seemingly
pointless.
One thing that's kind of a pet peeve for me is hosts that take photos and they don't put a subtitle
of what we're looking at or in the subtitle they don't sell you like they'll take a photograph of their
kitchen and in the kitchen they'll subtitle the kitchen.
That's not helpful.
That's a space where you can convince this person to come stay with you put something else saying my
lovely kitchen with all sorts of amenities or something like that.
Those are missed opportunities those are things I'm looking on saying OK this house clearly is not trying
or maximizing their potential.
The other thing that I mentioned previously was hosting metrics and and go over that a little but again
I'm sorry if this is redundant but this is quite important.
You can look at their hosting metrics like I said before.
100 percent is standard for response rate if it's below that.
Unfortunately the host cannot make up for that.
So if you see a host who is a 75 percent acceptance rate you can kind of assume that they're getting
probably half the bookings that they should because not only in responding to 25 percent of people most
people are going to look at that and go wow I'm not going to try because I don't think this host is
even going to respond or even going to you know walk me through the process.
A lot of guys are going to be on the fence.
They're not sure they're coming in late and they don't know if the host is going to respond.
That's something a huge deterrent to deters a lot more than what's proportionate in that percentage
it's not going to deter 25 percent of people get the 75 percent response rate.
Tina Turner probably 50 percent of people that's something that a host really can screw up.
Now if people around you or your doppelganger or the person you're comparing yourself to before is missing
that or there they made some mistakes.
Great news.
You're not going to make that mistake.
Response time again.
You want to be within an hour but it's not a huge deal if it's a couple hours.
Generally what that will mean though is that if someone's coming in and they're just going to message
five different properties the person responds the quickest is most likely going to get that booking
just in general.
But if you're not in the mindset you want to book every single night in your apartment and that's not
entirely important.
So hosing metrics very important.
These are kind of a general way of giving a grade to someone looking at their profile did they fill
out their profile with the full information.
Does the photograph have a picture of their face in it.
This is a problem with how they'll put a photograph because they think they're being self-conscious.
And it's of a group of people.
No one wants a book if they don't even know who the host in the photograph is.
Maybe it's not a big deal but on a subconscious level you want to make a connection to the person's
face who you're going to book with and whose home you're going to be staying in.
So those are all general kind of indications of the host quality.
You'd be surprised at how low the quality of someone the hosts are.
That kind of contributes to my general feeling of optimism in the sense that if you put in a minimal
amount of effort you can be a good host and you can beat out these other properties so if you're looking
at a space and you're saying MySpace can't compete against this place and this place will look at their
hosting records and if they're bad hosting records.
Trust me you can compete with them if they have a bad response right.
That's something they can't recover from their bad reviews they're not going to get rid of those.
So these are all things that should tell you yes this space is open.
I can make money on it.
At least I can take a number two position and I can still get bookings.
Again if he has any questions on this ask me in the group discussions.
The main point through this lecture was three things you're looking at photos reviews metrics.
Does the three ways you can give a grade to the host.
The point is lots about how in your area that means there's lots of opportunity for you to beat out
the category to beat them out to get more books.